---
title: "CFP"
bg: "#262626"
color: white
fa-icon: paper-plane
---

# Call for Proposals
{: .text-purple}

**NOTE: Submissions are closed for AMS 2025. Please look out for the CFP for AMS 2026, which will be posted soon after AMS 2025!**

Ancient MakerSpaces showcases digital approaches to the study of the ancient world. Since 2017, Ancient MakerSpaces has served as a venue at the AIA-SCS Annual Meeting for scholars, librarians, and students to share their ongoing digital scholarship and pedagogical work, as well as a space for hands-on, peer-based learning about digital resources and computational methods. The 2025 AIA/SCS Annual Meeting will be held from January 2-5 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

AMS 2025 is a collaborative, interactive forum showcasing digital ancient scholarship through presentations and live project demonstrations. We invite submissions from individuals working on digital tools, platforms, repositories, or techniques for engaging with ancient texts and material culture. Whether in the context of research, outreach, or teaching, we welcome digital work in all stages of planning and completion: in-progress or unpublished builds, published projects, and those left glitching or unfinished.

Time allotments will be 25 minutes long, oftentimes with 10 minutes devoted to introducing the project and the remaining 15 to a demonstration (the format of which can vary widely). Submissions from all disciplines within ancient studies (broadly defined) are welcome. Past presentations have covered a broad range of topics, including, but not limited to:

- digital pedagogy
- AR/VR environments
- digital mapping
- text encoding, annotating, or editing
- network analysis
- digitization and modeling (including epigraphic or numismatic materials)
- database management and development, linked open data, or data preservation

AMS is committed to providing an inclusive learning environment. We welcome participants of any identity, age, gender, nationality, race, disability, or sexual orientation. AMS celebrates individuals linking digital technology and the ancient world, regardless of their affiliation, educational level, professional status, or position. All individuals are welcome to submit a proposal. We especially encourage submissions from scholars of identities that have been historically marginalized in the field. If you are an undergraduate or graduate student and would be interested in presenting a lightning talk (~5 minutes) rather than a full presentation/demonstration, please get in touch with the organizers.


To submit a proposal for a presentation about your project, please fill out this Google Form by **March 13, 2024**: **[link no longer operational]**

Please contact us with questions: **ancientmakerspaces [at] gmail.com**.
