---
title: "abstracts"
bg: black
color: white
fa-icon: folder
---

# Abstracts
{: .text-purple}

## Unit 1: Tactile Made Digital (8:30am to 9:45am)

**Kearstin Jacobson (University of Texas at Austin), "Blasts from the Casts"**

The Blast from the Casts project is an interactive online exhibition bringing the Battle Collection of plaster casts of ancient sculpture, currently held by the Blanton Museum of Art in Austin, Texas, together as a cohesive collection in digital form to make in-depth, up-close, personal interaction with the casts widely accessible to students and the public. The website features interactive 3D models of the individual casts, a map and timeline presenting the historical context of both the original sculptures and the 19th/early 20th-century casts, and informational pages presenting Humanities perspectives on the historical, cultural, and artistic debates raised by both plaster casts and original Greek and Roman sculptures. It was inspired in part by artist Lily Cox-Richard's 2019 exhibition at the Blanton titled She-Wolf + Lower Figs, which not only challenged the pervasive myth of a monochrome antiquity, but addressed questions on the very notions of “taste”—especially of Western taste—in the study of the “classical” legacy. With the support of Cox-Richard and Humanities Texas, and in collaboration with both representatives from the Blanton and local teachers whose students are the primary audience for the online exhibit, Blast from the Casts seeks to advance the dialogue Cox-Richard started between old and new 3D technologies through a widely-accessible digital platform, and to explicitly address the contexts of antiquity lost across space and time. By doing so, we hope to help students and teachers more easily explore contemporary issues surrounding collecting, authenticity, and ethnocentric whiteness.

**Cole M. Smith (University of Texas at Austin), "A Complex Cultivated Pottery Trade: Social Network Analysis of the Marks of Trade on Greek Pottery"**

The primary goal of this project is to show the complexity of the trade of Attic and other Greek pottery and the role of traders in relation to workshops through social network analysis (SNA). This is conducted through the encoding trademark and other branding data known for Greek pottery and analyzing it through the program NodeXL. The current focus revolves around the trademark data catalogued and organized into a typology by Alan W Johnston in his Trademarks on Greek Vases (1979) and Trademarks on Greek Vases; Addendum (2006). The extraction of entry components from these volumes including attribution, findspot, trademark type, and other pottery characteristics allows for the creation of vertex lists. These lists were imported into NodeXL for visual and cluster analysis and assessed through associated centrality metrics calculated by the program. Usage of the program in this manner allowed for the identification of trading patterns and understanding elements of how and why trademarks were likely utilized. Future phases of this project seek to expand upon the entry data initially used for the SNA through the incorporation of iconographic information for trademarked vessels and also move beyond analysis of mainly figured pots for broader SNA. Additionally, other marks found on Greek pottery including bath notations, signatures, stamps, and means of branding show promise for the creation of further datasets that can be transformed into vertex lists of NodeXL’s SNA.

**Candis Haak (SUNY Oswego), "An Early Saivite Pilgrimage Landscape: The Persistence of Pampa and Bhairava in the Hemakuta Hill Sacred Space, 800-1325 CE"**

This paper presents an analysis of the spatial organization for the early medieval (800 to 1325 CE) saivite pilgrimage landscape in the Hemakuta Hill area of Hampi, Bellary District, Karnataka. The Pampa tirtha (pilgrimage), prior to the foundation of the Vijayanagara Empire (c.1336), is generallly presented as a relatively homogenous, albeit sacred space. Subsequently, the early medieval period is understudied period at Hampi. The wealth of inscriptions and architectural innovations that flourished in this area during the subsequent imperial era, dominates research and easily overshadowes the earlier history of the site. A such, my research was undertaken to develop a more nuanced understanding of this sacred space through the lens of spatial organization and pilgrim movement and sensorial experience. Two spatial data platforms were used for the investigation: a geographic information system and Google Earth Street View. I have digitized the natural and built landscape features of the area through Esri’s ArcMap to historically situate the extant stone monuments, as recorded by the Vijayanagara Research Project (Michell et al. 2001, volumes 1-3) and as identified through satellite imagery. Devotee movement through the pilgrimage space was then modelled on my time-sensitive maps of architectural and natural features. Pathways of movement across the site that pilgrims would have taken were then subsequently explored in the immersive panoramic imagery captured for the Hampi landscape in Google Street View. The nature of Google’s Street View technology and imagery enables a ground-based assessment of visual and physical accessibility, and sensorial engagement with non-ephemeral pilgrimage landscape features to be assessed. By combining these digital tools, a historicized analysis of the character and qualities of place, born from the organization of the site, are identifiable.

**Elton Barker (The Open University / Pelagios), "A digital Periegesis"**

In this presentation, I want to sketch out two ways in which the Digital Periegesis project is bringing to the fore spatial patterns underpinning Pausanias’s text, using Book 1 as a case study, while also developing digital tools and methods for research into textual geographies more broadly. First, I show how annotating in Recogito (an open-source tool produced by Pelagios) assists us in identifying spatial features mentioned in the text — places, objects in space, peoples; in aligning those references to the persistent identifiers (URIs) provided by the Pleiades gazetteer; and in bringing to the fore the underlying spatial structure of the narrative. Second, I explore the affordances provided by another of Pelagios's tools, the visualisation prototype Peripleo. While the annotated data from Recogito can be visualised in various platforms, including GIS, Peripleo enables exploration of the places mentioned vis-a-vis the text, which means that you can “follow” Pausanias’s movements through the civic space of Athens. More than this: by virtue of being based on Linked Data, Peripleo allows the user to follow up the links to other resources, and start to bring the text in dialogue with the archaeological information on the ground.

## Unit 2: Textual Made Digital (9:45am to 11:05am)

**Chiara Palladino (Furman University) and David J. Wright (University of Houston), "Ugarit: A translation alignment editor for historical languages"**

The Ugarit Translation Alignment Editor is a web environment that facilitates the creation of manually aligned parallel texts at word-level in historical and low-resourced languages. We currently host 45 languages, including Ancient Greek, Latin, Persian, Arabic, Chinese, Akkadian, Egyptian, Hittite, Hebrew, Georgian, and Armenian, and have over 500 users. The tool allows not only the systematic comparison of texts in different languages, but also the extraction of the data for visualization and statistical analysis; the underlying database collects all the translation pairs into a dynamic lexicon available to all users, who can search for a term in the interface and retrieve all available aligned words with their original context. The tool is currently used in various educational settings, including universities across the US, Brazil and Europe, and for research purposes ranging from linguistic analysis, translation studies, to cultural and lexical studies.

**Rebecca Rose Kaczmarek (College of the Holy Cross), "Investigating Myth in *Iliad* Scholia: New Computational Approaches"**

In this project I analyze ancient scholarly discussions of Trojan War myth in Byzantine Iliad manuscripts. These stories are central to Greek and Roman culture, but ancient critical works (by grammarians such as Aristarchus of Samothrace and Zenodotus of Ephesus) discussing them have been lost. I edit book 6 of the Iliad across several manuscripts, use computational methods to recover some of their content, and experiment with new composite methods - such as topic modeling, chronology, scholia length, and first-word analysis - that my team developed last summer for identifying relevant myth content scattered across thousands of scholia.  I hope the results will give a new perspective to Trojan War myth that I can apply as one of the sources in my senior thesis, so I can better understand how contemporary viewers would have approached Pompeiian frescoes of the Iliad.

**Patrick J. Burns (Institute for the Study of the Ancient World / NYU), "Streamlining Historical-Language Text Processing with CLTK Readers"**

Along with the mass of digitized Latin texts now available to researchers for computational analysis, there exists a number of different formats, markup strategies, encodings, and various editorial decisions that can make it difficult to incorporate texts from various sources into research projects without considerable preparatory work. In this workshop, I demonstrate use of CLTK Readers, a Python-based solution to streamlining the process of working with different collections of Ancient Greek and Latin texts. CLTK Readers consists of two primary parts: 1. a series of corpus readers that transform documents into a common format for analyzable units, such as documents, paragraphs, sentences, lines, and words, with programmatic flexibility for segmentation, tokenization, lemmatization, and other kinds of text annotation and built-in support for the Classical Language Toolkit; and 2. a collection of preconfigured classification, clustering, and visualization pipelines for easily setting up text-analysis experiments based on the output of the corpus readers. Corpus readers are currently available for the CLTK Tesserae Ancient Greek and Latin Corpora and the Universal Dependencies treebanks, with readers for additional collections and formats in development.


## Unit 3: Teaching Made Digital (11:05am to 12:15pm)

**Courtney Morano (Flyover Zone and Virginia Museum of Fine Arts), "Yorescape: A New Resource For Teaching Students About The Ancient World"**

The project centers around a small focus group of 6-12th grade educators and their feedback on the usage potential of the Yorescape app in their classrooms.  Yorescape, a Flyover Zone application (www.yorescape.com), allows users to stream virtual tours of ancient archaeological sites led by experts that include reconstructions of the site’s ancient appearance.

Realizing the app's potential for use in secondary classrooms studying ancient history, small focus groups were held with 6 - 12th grade teachers of World History and Latin. The pedagogical goals of the study were threefold: increase awareness of the Yorescape app amongst secondary teachers,  understand ways in which teachers and students could use the app in their curriculum, and consider ways to encourage teacher and student engagement with the app.

Teachers were walked through the basics of the app and given 5-10 stops on the Rome Reborn: Roman Forum virtual tour and Athens Reborn: Acropolis. After the teachers completed the tasks, a group discussion was held to gain feedback on general user experience as well as ideas on classroom usage. The resulting information was used to better understand what barriers and opportunities exist for Yorescape’s use in classrooms and how this information can be leveraged to make improvements and better support educators.

The presentation will present the results of teacher feedback, including lessons learned and concrete ideas for classroom incorporation as well as a closer look at the application.

**Emily Prosch and Kristine Mallinson (University of Missouri - Columbia), "All About the Ancient World"**

All About the Ancient World (AATAW) is a continual online lecture series featuring early career researchers (who we define as graduate students and those who have graduated within the last two years) who discuss any aspect of the ancient world. The project has four main goals: (1) to promote early career researcher voices, especially in the humanities, (2) to promote cross-cultural, global, and interdisciplinary consideration of the ancient world, (3) to promote skills in communicating to a non-specialist, general audience, and (4) to make the humanities accessible, interesting, and relevant to the public. Rolling submissions, including an abstract and bibliography, are due every two months to provide a flexible schedule, and are reviewed by the AATAW team. Approved presenters ultimately create their own virtual presentations, which AATAW reviews and uploads to the AATAW YouTube channel.

**Hugh McElroy (Independent Scholar), "Ut silicis venis abstrusum excuderet ignem: An pipeline of open-access tools to create student editions of Latin texts from scanned PDFs"**

Rather than presenting a standalone project, I would like to demonstrate a workflow for integrating independently-developed open-access resources to rapidly create annotated editions of lesser-known Latin texts for student use. There is a rich vein to be mined of early modern Latin editions on Google Books, the Internet Archive, and the websites of libraries around the world. One may find a natural history of dragons, a 16th century play based on Heliodorus’ Aethiopica, and a scientific treatise on the exploration of underground volcanic passages. The pedagogical potential of these texts is huge, catering as they do to interests (in the fantastical, in a plot-driven romance, in science) our students already have. Creating editions of these texts for classroom use has been labor-intensive. Online lemmatizers like the Bridge and Johan Winge’s Latin Macronizer have vastly sped up the process of generating vocabulary and macrons for, say, a text pulled from the Latin Library, but many digitized Latin texts are only available as untranscribed scans. Until recently, hand-transcription from a PDF was the only viable way to prepare such a text for the kind of processing and analysis that digital lemmatization and macronization facilitate. New OCR tools, designed with early modern printed Latin in mind, substantially speed up the process by which an individual instructor or team can convert a scanned PDF to editable text (and from there to a macronized edition with customized vocabulary lists for students.
